# 2025-research-report
This repo conatins data and code for "INTRA-SPECIFIC RESPONSES OF GEPHYROCAPSA HUXLEYI AND ASSOCIATED BACTERIA UNDER HEATAND NITROGEN STRESS," a research report submitted in partial requirement of the MIT-WHOI Biological Oceanography General Exam on January 31, 2025 by Miah Manning.

## Abstract
Environmental factors of climate change alter the interactions between bacteria and their algal hosts within a region known as the phycosphere surrounding each algal cell. These algal-bacterial interactions have broad implications for marine microbial community ecology. We examined the interactive effects of warming and N-limitation on Gephyrocapsa huxleyi—a widely abundant and physiologically flexible coccolithophore—and its phycosphere. We subjected xenic cultures of G. huxleyi (strains RCC874 and RCC914) to nitrogen(N)-replete and N-limited conditions at 3 temperature regimes based on model predictions: no heat stress, moderate heat stress, and high heat stress. N-limitation was the primary driver of cellular C:N:P ratios. The main determinant of bacterial community composition was algal strain; temperature was also significant, but N had no significant impact. We identified intra-specific bacterial taxa in RCC914 (n=187) and RCC874 (n=303), indicating that unique physiological traits (e.g., variations in organic molecule production) support different bacterial communities. We measured osmolyte concentrations, which regulate osmotic pressure and cellular homeostasis. Variation in bacterial community composition could be explained by osmolyte concentrations. Overall, our findings highlight how N-limitation and warming interact to impact G. huxleyi physiology and phycosphere interactions at the strain level, emphasizing the importance of intra-specific  differences in understanding marine ecosystems under changing climate conditions

## AI Useage Statement
AI (OpenAI. ChatGPT. https://chat.openai.com/chat) was used to assist with code generation and troublshooting; however, all generated code was carefully reviewed and manually adjusted to ensure accuracy, quality, and alignment with the project objectives.

## Contact
If you have questions about the data or code, please contact Miah Manning at miahm@mit.edu
